---

title: Apprentice Learning
layout: post
img: /images/apprentice_learning.png
date: 2018-12-30
comments: false

---

This research aims to develop a unified theory of learning from instruction and
to provide a framework for building machines that are natural to teach. Central
to this work is the Apprentice Learner Architecture, which faclitates model
development and testing, and the Natural Training Interaction Framework, which
outlines the space of natural training interactions.

The biggest output of this line of work to date is my [thesis](/thesis.html),
which describes the core research thrust and its applications for tutor design,
behavior predictions, and theory testing. Recently, I have been making exciting
progress towards developing HCI theory to support the construction of machines
that are natural to teach.

# Naturally Teachable Machines

**MacLellan, C.J.**, Harpstead, E., Marinier III, R. P., Koedinger, K.R.
(2018). A Framework for Natural Cognitive System Training Interactions.
_Advances in Cognitive Systems_, 6, 177-192. [(pdf)][1]

Sheline, R. & **MacLellan., C.J.** (2018). Investigating Machine-Learning
Interaction with Wizard-of-Oz Experiments. In _Proceedings of the NeurIPS 2018
Workshop on Learning by Instruction_. [(pdf)][107]

# Behavior Prediction and Learning Theory Testing

**MacLellan, C.J.**, Harpstead, E., Patel, R., Koedinger, K.R. (2016). The
Apprentice Learner Architecture: Closing the loop between learning theory and
educational data. In _Proceedings of the 9th International Conference on
Educational Data Mining_. Raleigh, NC: International Educational Data Mining
Society. **(Exemplary Paper Award)** [(pdf)][76]

# Tutor Design

**MacLellan, C.J.**, Koedinger, K.R., Matsuda, N. (2014) Authoring Tutors with
SimStudent: An Evaluation of Efficiency and Model Quality. In S. Trausan-Matu,
K. E. Boyer, M. Crosby, & K. Panourgia (Eds.), _Proceedings of the 12th
International Conference on Intelligent Tutoring Systems_ (pp. 551-560).
Switzerland: Springer International. doi: [10.1007/978-3-319-07221-0][81]
[(pdf)][82]

[1]: /media/publications/maclellan-2018.pdf

[107]: /media/publications/Sheline-2018.pdf

[81]: https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-07221-0

[82]: /media/publications/maclellan-2014.pdf

[76]: /media/publications/edm_submission_gupeqSq.pdf

